Miguel, you have explained them talking
about brand elasticity, there are brands
that are more elastic and there are brands
that are less elastic and you have
put us the example of some companies
that there are companies that
have mistakenly tried to pull too
much of their brand and have ended
up failing and there are others that
have done well because they are
aware of the elasticity, have
not pulled too much and what
they have done is, in some cases,
have created new brands and
if they wanted to grow have
created new brands.
And this is called brand architecture,
which is basically like managing
the different brands you have.
I would love if you explained
what brand architecture is
and gave us some examples.
Brand architecture is to determine
how brands in a group relate
to each other, what kind of relationship
they have to have, and there
are basically three ways
in which they can relate.
Everything is the same brand.
For example, a classic example is Sony, everything
is Sony or Acciona and then you have
if you want areas, but they are
areas, they are not brands, they are
different things.
Then you have action on water,
you have action on energy, etc.
The other is just the opposite,
which is totally independent
brands, which is the case we
had put before Inditex.
You have Pull & Bear, you have Zara,
you have Massimo Dutti, only in
terms of business people know that
they belong to the same corporation.
The customer sees different brands,
different value proposals, different
smells, different designs,
everything is different.
And that’s because it wasn’
t really elastic enough for...
I think Zara was the first of the
brands.
If you want to enter a little more
premium segment, the Zara brand
didn’t allow it.
Then buy, in the case of Massimo
Dutti was a purchase.
Either you create or buy to reach that
segment that interests you and because
you are interested in moving an
idea of independence.
Then you have on the one hand the
independent architecture
option, on the other hand the monolithic
architecture option, in which
everything is the same brand.
And then you have the one between
the measures of the two, which
is the architecture they call endos,
because there is a main brand that
endoses at the top or lower level.
For example, Nescafé is saying from
the prefix that it is Nestlé, but there
are other Nestlé products where they
have Nestlé endorsement above
or Nestlé endorsement below their
brand.
So good, it’s a type of endorsement
at the main or secondary level
that can come from using the
same typography, using the
same colors, using the prefix
or simply having the support,
which is ultimately a brand
support or endorsement at
the main or secondary level.
Could Coca-Cola be this?
Coca-Cola sometimes uses endorsement
for some products, but generally
uses a criterion of letting
it fly independently.
I’m not talking about Coca-Cola Light Zero.
Coca-Cola is a kind of endos.
In that case.
There are no summaries.
You can consider Light to be a Coca-
Cola sumark or Zero to be a sumark.
I think it has come to be,
although it was just a product
development that has
come to be.
It’s not always clear where the area
is, where the sumarca is, where the
main brand is.
In the case, for example, of the islands,
all the islands of Mallorca have the approval
of the islands and you see the same color,
the same typography and you
have Menorca, Mallorca and all
with the approval of the Balearic
Islands.
It is the endorsement.
The endorsement is that you are endorsing
in some way.
well is.
Anida has the BBVA approval because
it is interested in moving that
approval, in a brand launch process.
Then, when the brand is already
sufficiently recognized, you probably
no longer strategically interested
in the approval because you are
interested in seeing more
specialization and more
independence in the brand.
So, you always have to obey
strategic issues in the brand architecture
you endow yourself
with.
Indeed, as you said, this is not
white or black and the lines are
sometimes fine.
For example, in the case
of Coca-Cola, what is product development,
what is brand new?
The important thing is that we understand
the three types you told us
to be independent brands.
Inditex is a completely
independent brand.
They are monolithic brands,
that is, for all your
products, even for all your business
lines, use the same
brand.
Then the concept of endorsement.